---
layout: page
title: LOCKSS 2.0-alpha
---

***This page is under construction in advance of the forthcoming release of LOCKSS 2.0-alpha.***

**Release date: 2019-05-XX**

*Page last updated: 2019-05-12*

The LOCKSS Program is pleased to announce that **LOCKSS 2.0-alpha**, the first publicly available prototype of its next-generation distributed digital preservation software suite, is now available for testing. *LOCKSS 2.0-alpha is a technology preview, not intended for production installations.*

## Components

The LOCKSS 2.0-alpha release features:

*   Storage in the **LOCKSS Repository Service**, on top of [Solr](https://lucene.apache.org/solr/).
*   Node configuration and state management in the **LOCKSS Configuration Service**
*   Content ingest with the LOCKSS Crawler
*   LOCKSS polling and repair with the **LOCKSS Poller Service**
*   Metadata extraction and query in the **LOCKSS Metadata Extraction Service** and **LOCKSS Metadata Service**, on top of a [Postgres] database
*   Web replay with LOCKSS ServeContent and [Pywb](https://github.com/webrecorder/pywb), the state-of-the-art Web replay engine behind [Webrecorder](https://webrecorder.io/)

## Installation

### Overview

In order to install and test the LOCKSS 2.0-alpha system, you will need:

- 64-bit **Linux** host (physical or virtual) with 4 cores and 8 GB of memory
- **Docker** running in Swarm mode and with the Local-Persist volume plugin
- **Git** to download a small project from GitHub
- The Setuptools and Pystache Python modules

### Instructions

For detailed installation instructions, see the [**Installing the LOCKSS System**](../manual/installing) section in the [LOCKSS System Manual](../manual).

## Contact Us

Please contact us for questions, feedback and bug reports. Open a ticket by sending e-mail to `lockss-support` (at) `lockss` (dot) `org`. Your contribution toward the final LOCKSS 2.0 release is very important to us and greatly appreciated by the community.

## Frequently Asked Questions

**I have an existing LOCKSS system (version 1.x). Can I upgrade to LOCKSS 2.0-alpha?**

The LOCKSS 2.0-alpha release is a technology preview which we are excited to share with the community for testing purposes. It is not yet possible to convert from a classic LOCKSS system (version 1.74.7) to a LOCKSS 2.0 system. To help us advance toward the final LOCKSS 2.0 release, please consider installing and running the LOCKSS 2.0-alpha release and [providing us with your feedback](#contact-us).

**Can I use my own Postgres database?**

The LOCKSS 2.0-alpha system runs its own Postgres database. The LOCKSS 2.0-beta system will allow you to use your own Postgres database instead if you choose.

**Can I use my own Solr database?**

The LOCKSS 2.0-alpha system comes with its own Solr database. In the LOCKSS 2.0-beta system, you will be able to choose to use your own Solr database if you prefer.

**Can I use the HDFS storage in my own Hadoop cluster?**

The LOCKSS 2.0-alpha system spins up its own HDFS storage. The LOCKSS 2.0-beta system will enable you to connect to your own HDFS storage over an unanthenticated HDFS port. If there is interest in connecting the LOCKSS system to HDFS storage over a port authenticated via Kerberos, the LOCKSS team will include it as part of its future development roadmap.

**Can I replay Web content with my own Pywb instance?**

Yes, the LOCKSS 2.0-alpha system runs an embedded Pywb instance, but it is possible to configure your own Pywb instance to connect directly to the LOCKSS Repository Service. [Contact us](#contact-us) for instructions. The LOCKSS 2.0-beta will enable you to skip the embedded Pywb instance entirely.

**Can I replay Web content with my own OpenWayback instance?**

The LOCKSS 2.0-alpha system does not run an embedded OpenWayback instance, but it is possible to configure your own OpenWayback instance to connect directly to the LOCKSS Repository Service. [Contact us](#contact-us) for instructions. (The LOCKSS 2.0-beta will enable you to run an embedded OpenWayback instance if you choose.)
