-----

## 4.1.6 - The repository shall obtain sufficient control over the Digital Objects to preserve them.

Control in this context has two meanings:

  - Legal control of the Digital Objects, in terms of the rights to
    perform the necessary operations on them.
  - Physical control of the Digital Objects, or rather of the media on
    which the Digital Objects are stored.

### Legal Control

The publisher grants the CLOCKSS archive the rights to:

  - Make and keep permanent copies of the Content Information and
    associated metadata on the boxes in the CLOCKSS PLN.
  - Disseminate the Content Information and metadata under Creative
    Commons licenses if the CLOCKSS Board decides that a trigger event
    has occurred.

These rights are signalled:

  - For [harvest
    content](Definition_of_AIP#Creating_an_AIP_from_a_harvest_SIP "wikilink"),
    by the publisher placing a CLOCKSS permission statement in the
    agreed-upon place in their web site.
  - For [file transfer
    content](Definition_of_AIP#Creating_an_AIP_from_a_file_transfer_SIP "wikilink"),
    by the publisher placing the SIP on the CLOCKSS FTP server, or on
    their own FTP server so as to be accessible to the CLOCKSS account.

### Physical Control

As described in [CLOCKSS: Ingest
Pipeline](CLOCKSS:_Ingest_Pipeline "wikilink"), both harvest and file
transfer content is initially staged during ingest processing on ingest
machines operated by the LOCKSS team at Stanford. From there, it is
transferred to the CLOCKSS boxes in the CLOCKSS PLN. The physical and
informational security measures that protect these machines are set out
in [CLOCKSS: Threats and
Mitigations](CLOCKSS:_Threats_and_Mitigations "wikilink") and [CLOCKSS:
Box Operations](CLOCKSS:_Box_Operations "wikilink").

### Relevant Documents

1.  [Definition of AIP](Definition_of_AIP "wikilink")
2.  [CLOCKSS: Ingest Pipeline](CLOCKSS:_Ingest_Pipeline "wikilink")
3.  [CLOCKSS: Threats and
    Mitigations](CLOCKSS:_Threats_and_Mitigations "wikilink")
4.  [CLOCKSS: Box Operations](CLOCKSS:_Box_Operations "wikilink")