# CLOCKSS Archive

Welcome to the documentation Wiki of the [CLOCKSS
Archive](http://www.clockss.org).

## CLOCKSS Archive Documents

These documents describe the organization, policies, practices and plans
of the CLOCKSS Archive:

  - [CLOCKSS: Mission Statement](CLOCKSS:_Mission_Statement "wikilink")
  - [CLOCKSS: Governance and
    Organization](CLOCKSS:_Governance_and_Organization "wikilink")
  - [CLOCKSS: Budget and Planning
    Process](CLOCKSS:_Budget_and_Planning_Process "wikilink")
  - [CLOCKSS: Business Plan
    Overview](CLOCKSS:_Business_Plan_Overview "wikilink")
  - [CLOCKSS: Business History](CLOCKSS:_Business_History "wikilink")
  - [CLOCKSS: Collection
    Development](CLOCKSS:_Collection_Development "wikilink")
  - [CLOCKSS: Preservation
    Strategy](CLOCKSS:_Preservation_Strategy "wikilink")
  - [CLOCKSS: Access Policy](CLOCKSS:_Access_Policy "wikilink")
  - [CLOCKSS: Succession Plan](CLOCKSS:_Succession_Plan "wikilink")
  - [CLOCKSS: Publisher
    Agreement](https://clockss.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/2019-CLOCKSS-Participating-Publisher-Agreement.pdf)
  - [CLOCKSS: Fees](https://clockss.org/join-clockss/)

## LOCKSS Program Documents

These documents describe the [LOCKSS
technology](https://www.lockss.org):

  - [LOCKSS: Basic Concepts](LOCKSS:_Basic_Concepts "wikilink")
  - [LOCKSS: Polling and Repair
    Protocol](LOCKSS:_Polling_and_Repair_Protocol "wikilink")
  - [LOCKSS: Format Migration](LOCKSS:_Format_Migration "wikilink")
  - [LOCKSS: Metadata Database](LOCKSS:_Metadata_Database "wikilink")
  - [LOCKSS: Extracting Bibliographic
    Metadata](LOCKSS:_Extracting_Bibliographic_Metadata "wikilink")
  - [LOCKSS: Software Development
    Process](LOCKSS:_Software_Development_Process "wikilink")
  - [LOCKSS: Property Server
    Operations](LOCKSS:_Property_Server_Operations "wikilink")

## LOCKSS Adaptations to CLOCKSS Archive Documents

These documents describe how the LOCKSS technology is used by the
CLOCKSS Archive:

  - [CLOCKSS: Threats and
    Mitigations](CLOCKSS:_Threats_and_Mitigations "wikilink")
  - [CLOCKSS: Logging and
    Records](CLOCKSS:_Logging_and_Records "wikilink")
  - [CLOCKSS: Ingest Pipeline](CLOCKSS:_Ingest_Pipeline "wikilink")
  - [CLOCKSS: Box Operations](CLOCKSS:_Box_Operations "wikilink")
  - [CLOCKSS: Extracting Triggered
    Content](CLOCKSS:_Extracting_Triggered_Content "wikilink")
  - [CLOCKSS: Hardware and Software
    Inventory](CLOCKSS:_Hardware_and_Software_Inventory "wikilink")

## OAIS Conformance Documents

These documents describe the mapping between the CLOCKSS Archive and the
[OAIS Reference
Architecture](http://public.ccsds.org/publications/archive/650x0m2.pdf):

  - [CLOCKSS: Designated
    Community](CLOCKSS:_Designated_Community "wikilink")
  - [CLOCKSS: Mandatory
    Responsibilities](CLOCKSS:_Mandatory_Responsibilities "wikilink")
  - [Definition of SIP](Definition_of_SIP "wikilink")
  - [Definition of AIP](Definition_of_AIP "wikilink")
  - [Definition of DIP](Definition_of_DIP "wikilink")

## Background

During the preparation for the [TRAC
audit](http://www.crl.edu/archiving-preservation/digital-archives/metrics-assessing-and-certifying/trac)
of the CLOCKSS Archive, it was decided to make as much documentation of
the CLOCKSS Archive public as possible. This wiki is the result. The
contents have been collected from a variety of sources, including:

  - Published papers
  - CLOCKSS board minutes and other Board documents
  - The LOCKSS team's internal wiki
  - The LOCKSS team's ticketing and bug tracking systems

Many of these sources were not intended to be made public, and contained
confidential or inappropriate material. The contents of this wiki were
extracted from them and reviewed for publication as part of the audit
preparations. These pages document:

  - The structure, policies and practices of the CLOCKSS Archive.
  - The conformance of the CLOCKSS Archive to the OAIS Reference Model
  - The policies, practices and technology of the LOCKSS Program, which
    operates the CLOCKSS Archive under contract to the CLOCKSS Board.
  - The adaptations made to the generic LOCKSS technology for the
    purposes of the CLOCKSS Archive.

As structures, policies, practices and technologies change, these
documents will be maintained so that up-to-date information on these
topics is available to the public.

In particular, some documents were edited after their initial submission
but before release of the certification report by the auditors to
clarify issues that arose during the audit process and to include some
material from the confidential part of the submission that was judged
non-confidential. Viewing the history an individual page will reveal any
such changes.

## ISO 16363 Criteria

For the purposes of the audit, the wiki also contains a page for each of
the [ISO 16363
criteria](http://www.iso.org/iso/catalogue_detail.htm?csnumber=56510).
The audit was actually conducted using the closely-related but shortly
to be obsolete [TRAC
criteria](http://www.crl.edu/archiving-preservation/digital-archives/metrics-assessing-and-certifying/trac);
these pages use the ISO criteria in the interest of future-proofing. The
goal for these pages was that they be a finding aid for the auditors,
allowing them to easily locate the relevant parts of the documents for
each criterion, but that all actual content be in the documents. Thus
interested readers can use the documents without needing to refer to the
criteria pages:

  - [3) Organizational
    Infrastructure](3\)_Organizational_Infrastructure "wikilink")
  - [4) Digital Object
    Management](4\)_Digital_Object_Management "wikilink")
  - [5) Infrastructure and Security Risk
    Management](5\)_Infrastructure_and_Security_Risk_Management "wikilink")

## Confidential Documents

The auditors requested additional information, some of which was
confidential:

  - Requested information that was not confidential was added to the
    documents in this Wiki. For example, URL lists and metadata for
    sample AUs were added to [Definition of
    AIP](Definition_of_AIP "wikilink").
  - Requested information that was confidential was supplied in a
    separate Wiki which was deactivated at the end of the audit.

## CLOCKSS Permission Statement

CLOCKSS system has permission to ingest, preserve, and serve this
Archival Unit.