---
layout: page
title: LOCKSS 2.0-alpha3
---

** This is a place holder **

**Release date: **

*Last updated: *

The LOCKSS Program is pleased to announce that **LOCKSS 2.0-alpha3**, the third publicly available prototype of its next-generation distributed digital preservation software suite, is now available for testing. *LOCKSS 2.0-alpha3 is a technology preview, not intended for production installations.*

## What's New?
## Installation

In order to install the LOCKSS 2.0-alpha3 system, you will need:

*   64-bit **Linux** host (physical or virtual) with at least 4 cores and 8 GB of memory
*   **Docker** running in Swarm mode and with the Local-Persist Docker volume plugin
*   **Git** to download the `lockss-installer` project from GitHub

For detailed installation instructions, see the [**Installing the LOCKSS System**](../manual/2.0-alpha3/installing) section in the [**LOCKSS System Manual**](../manual/2.0-alpha3).

## Upgrade

In order to upgrade a LOCKSS 2.0-alpha1 system to LOCKSS 2.0-alpha3, you no longer need the Pystache Python module, but you will need to hava **Java 8** on the host machine to run the Solr upgrade tool[<sup>1</sup>](#n1).

For detailed installation instructions, see the [**Upgrading From LOCKSS 2.0-alpha1**](../manual/2.0-alpha3/upgrading) section in the [**LOCKSS System Manual**](../manual/2.0-alpha3).

## Contact Us

Please contact us for questions, feedback and bug reports. Open a ticket by sending e-mail to `lockss-support` (at) `lockss` (dot) `org`. Your contribution toward the final LOCKSS 2.0 release is very important to us and greatly appreciated by the community.

## Versions

The LOCKSS 2.0-alpha3 system consists of a configurable set of the following components:

*   [LOCKSS Configuration Service](https://github.com/lockss/laaws-configservice) version 2.0.4.0
*   [LOCKSS Repository Service](https://github.com/lockss/laaws-repository-service) version 2.0.10.0
*   [LOCKSS Metadata Extraction Service](https://github.com/lockss/laaws-metadataextractor) version 2.0.3.0
*   [LOCKSS Metadata Service](https://github.com/lockss/laaws-metadataservice) version 2.0.2.0
*   [LOCKSS Poller Service](https://github.com/lockss/laaws-poller) version 2.0.2.0
*   [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) version 9.6.12
*   [Apache Solr](https://lucene.apache.org/solr/) version 7.2.1
*   [Pywb](https://github.com/webrecorder/pywb) version 2.2.20190410
*   [OpenWayback](https://github.com/iipc/openwayback) version 2.4.0-1

## Frequently Asked Questions

**I have an existing classic LOCKSS system (version 1.x). Can I upgrade to LOCKSS 2.0-alpha3?**

The LOCKSS 2.0-alpha3 release is a technology preview which we are excited to share with the community for testing purposes. It is not yet possible to convert from a classic LOCKSS system (version 1.74.7) to a LOCKSS 2.0 system. To help us advance toward the final LOCKSS 2.0 release, please consider installing and running the LOCKSS 2.0-alpha3 release on a test machine and [providing us with your feedback](#contact-us).

**I have a LOCKSS system running 2.0-alpha2. Can I upgrade to LOCKSS 2.0-alpha3?**

Yes. You are welcome to wipe your testing data from LOCKSO 2.0-alpha2 and start from scratch, but there is an [upgrade](#upgrade) path from LOCKSS 2.0-alpha3.

**Can I use my own PostgreSQL database?**

Yes, in the LOCKSS 2.0-alpha3 system you can run the included PostgreSQL database, or configure it to use your local or institutional PostgreSQL database.

**Can I use my own Solr database?**

Yes, likewise, the LOCKSS 2.0-alpha3 system can run an included Solr database, but you can can also configure it to use your local or institutional Solr database.

**Can I replay Web content with my own Pywb instance?**

Yes, you can configure your own Pywb instance to connect directly to the LOCKSS Repository Service, or you can use the included Pywb instance, or you might choose not to run Pywb at all.

**Can I replay Web content with my own OpenWayback instance?**

Yes, you can configure your own OpenWayback instance to connect directly to the LOCKSS Repository Service, or you can use the included OpenWayback instance, or you might choose not to run OpenWayback at all.

----

#### Footnotes
